Freicoin version 12.1.3-10161 is now available from:

  * [Linux 32-bit](https://s3.amazonaws.com/in.freico.stable/freicoin-v12.1.3-10161-linux32.zip)
  * [Linux 64-bit](https://s3.amazonaws.com/in.freico.stable/freicoin-v12.1.3-10161-linux64.zip)
  * [macOS (app)](https://s3.amazonaws.com/in.freico.stable/freicoin-v12.1.3-10161-osx.dmg)
  * [macOS (server)](https://s3.amazonaws.com/in.freico.stable/freicoin-v12.1.3-10161-osx64.tar.gz)
  * [Windows 32-bit (installer)](https://s3.amazonaws.com/in.freico.stable/freicoin-v12.1.3-10161-win32-setup.exe)
  * [Windows 32-bit (zip)](https://s3.amazonaws.com/in.freico.stable/freicoin-v12.1.3-10161-win32.zip)
  * [Windows 64-bit (installer)](https://s3.amazonaws.com/in.freico.stable/freicoin-v12.1.3-10161-win64-setup.exe)
  * [Windows 64-bit (zip)](https://s3.amazonaws.com/in.freico.stable/freicoin-v12.1.3-10161-win64.zip)
  * [Source](https://github.com/tradecraftio/tradecraft/archive/v12.1.3-10161.zip)

This is a new point release, enabling soft-fork deployment of the
block-final transaction protocol rule update, a prerequisite for
segregated witness and forward blocks.

Please report bugs using the issue tracker at github:

  https://github.com/tradecraftio/tradecraft/issues

How to Upgrade
==============

If you are running an older version, shut it down. Wait until it has
completely shut down (which might take a few minutes for older
versions), then run the installer (on Windows) or just copy over
/Applications/Freicoin-Qt (on Mac) or freicoind/freicoin-qt (on
Linux).

Downgrade warning
-----------------

### Downgrade to a version < v12

Because release v12 and later will obfuscate the chainstate on every
fresh sync or reindex, the chainstate is not backwards-compatible with
pre-v12 versions of Freicoin or other software.

If you want to downgrade after you have done a reindex with v12 or
later, you will need to reindex when you first start Freicoin version
v11 or earlier.

This does not affect wallet forward or backward compatibility.

Notable changes
===============

Soft-fork deployment code for block-final transactions
------------------------------------------------------

This release includes a soft fork deployment, using the [BIP9]()
deployment mechanism, to enforce a scheme for making the final
transaction of a block accessible to miners, for use by future
soft-forks.

The deployment sets the 2nd bit (1 << 1) of the block version number
between midnight 2 July 2019 and midnight 16 April 2020 to signal
readiness for deployment.  Note that as a residual effect of the
coinbase-MTP soft-fork, the high-order nyble of a block's version
field must 0b0011 until 2 October 2019 (0b001 to indicate version
bits, and the highest version bit set).  The "locktime" soft-fork is
also being signaled for during this time, using the first (1 << 0)
version bit.  Please see the v12.1.2-10135 release notes for more
information regarding that soft-fork deployment.

The status of the block-final soft-fork deployment can be queried as
the "blockfinal" soft-fork reported by the `getblockchaininfo` RPC
call.

Should this soft-fork activate, there are additional steps that miners
will be required to undertake in order for their blocks to validate.
If you maintain mining or pool software, please see the next section
for instructions.

For more information about the soft-fork change, please see
<https://github.com/tradecraftio/tradecraft/pull/46>

[BIP9]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0009.mediawiki

Block-final transactions for miner commitments
----------------------------------------------

Commitments made by miners in bitcoin, such as to the segregated
witness data structure, are placed in the coinbase transaction.  This
is the easiest choice, as it is the one place in the block which
miners have free control over the contents, and which supports
non-trivial amounts of arbitrary data.  However it is not an optimal
location: proofs of miner commitments require a Merkle tree proof of
the coinbase transaction, which is log(N) sized (where N is the number
of transactions in the block).

It has been known for some time that should the commitment be placed
in the LAST transaction of a block, the size of the Merkle proof can
be considerably reduced, even to the point of being a constant 32B if
the number of transactions in a block is of the form (2^Z) + 1 for
some integer Z.  Furthermore if the commitment is placed at the end of
this block-final transaction then midstate compression can be used to
reduce the amount of additional information required by a proof to
around 100B total.  This minimized proof size is of considerable
importance when we consider SPV proofs of witness data to mobile
clients, or or block header commitments providing log-sized "proofs of
proof of work" for sidechain pegs and other protocols.

Having the last transaction of a block available for miners to use is
also vitally important, it turns out, for various schemes that involve
protocol-managed pots of funds, such as rebateable fees or the cross-
shard transfers that are a part of forward blocks.  In these proposals
"anyone-can-spend" user outputs of a certain form are collected
(spent) by the final transaction of the block in which they appear,
where they are then carried forward from block-to-block in an unending
chain until they are redeemed at which point they pass to the coinbase
transaction as "fee" and are paid out in an output subject to coinbase
maturity rules.

Although elegant, the trouble with using the final transaction of a
block for these purposes is that every transaction in a block after
the coinbase is required to have inputs, and therefore in order to
create such block-final transactions the miner must have access to at
least one mature output it controls in the UTXO set.  The solution is
to chain the transactions together so that the outputs of the final
transaction of one block are used as the inputs to the next block's
final transaction. To get the process started, the coinbase of the
block where activation occurs contains at least one anyone-can-spend
output of this special form, and the new rules activate when that
coinbase's outputs mature 100 blocks later.

A block-final transaction is required to spend ALL the outputs of the
prior block's final transaction, and the outputs it creates must be
spendable with an empty scriptSig.  Because transactions are required
to have at least one output, this ensures that there is always an
input available for the next block's final transaction.  Additionally
a block-final transaction is also allowed to gather inputs from the
current block, or the just-matured coinbase from 100 blocks back, but
no other input sources are allowed.

Instructions for miners to create block-final transactions
----------------------------------------------------------

Upon activation, blocks are REQUIRED to have block-final transactions
as described above, and miners MUST update their software or else they
will find their blocks orphaned by the network.

On the block which the [BIP9]() status of the "blockfinal" soft-fork
switches from "locked_in" to "active", the coinbase MUST contain an
output that can be successfully spent with an empty scriptSig, for
which `scriptPubKey = CScript([OP_TRUE])` suffices.

It is not recommended that mining software re-implement the [BIP9]()
version bits soft-fork activation logic, due to the inherent risk of
reimplementing consensus code.  Instead it is recommended that mining
software include a zero-valued OP_TRUE output in their coinbase if all
three of the following conditions are met:

  1. The block height is a multiple of 2016 (`nHeight % 2016 == 0`);

  2. The [BIP9]() status of the "blockfinal" soft-fork is reported as
     "active" in the output of the `getblockchaininfo` RPC; and

  3. There is no "blockfinal" section in the output of the
     `getblocktemplate` RPC.

This will produce the initial output that is required to get the
block-final transaction chain going.

Once the initial output matures, mining software must also produce
block-final transactions correctly, and the necessary information for
doing so is provided in the output of the `getblocktemplate` RPC:

  { ...
    "blockfinal": {
      "prevout": [
        {
          "txid":   ...(string)
          "vout":   ...(numeric)
          "amount": ...(numeric)
        },
        ...
      ],
    },
    "locktime": ...(numeric)
    "height":   ...(numeric)
  }

The block-final transaction needs to include as inputs ALL of the
UTXOs specified in the "prevout" array.  It also needs to include at
least one trivially spendable output (e.g. OP_TRUE).  Finally, the
block-final `nLockTime` and `lock_height` fields should be set to the
same values specified in the "locktime" and "height" fields from the
output of `getblocktemplate`.

Note that construction of the block-final transaction WILL require
additional steps in future soft-forks, which is why it must be
constructed by the miner. Pay close attention to release notes for
future releases.

12.1.3-10161 Change log
=======================

  * `12cf4e24` [Checkpoint]
    Add recent checkpoint, block #256000.

  * `25c92385` [DNSseed]
    Add new DNS seeds run by Tradecraft developers.

  * PR #46 [FinalTx]
    Add block-final transactions, which are a sort of "2nd coinbase"
    generated by the miner _after_ all other transactions in a block,
    and a [BIP9]() soft-fork deployment mechanism to coodinate
    activation of this feature.

Credits
--------

Thanks to who contributed to this release, including:

- Kalle Alm
- Mark Friedenbach

As well as everyone that helped translating on [Transifex](https://www.transifex.com/tradecraft/freicoin-1/).
