Freicoin version 12.1.3.1-10174 is now available from:

  * [Linux 32-bit](https://s3.amazonaws.com/in.freico.stable/freicoin-v12.1.3.1-10174-linux32.zip)
  * [Linux 64-bit](https://s3.amazonaws.com/in.freico.stable/freicoin-v12.1.3.1-10174-linux64.zip)
  * [macOS (app)](https://s3.amazonaws.com/in.freico.stable/freicoin-v12.1.3.1-10174-osx.dmg)
  * [macOS (server)](https://s3.amazonaws.com/in.freico.stable/freicoin-v12.1.3.1-10174-osx64.tar.gz)
  * [Windows 32-bit (installer)](https://s3.amazonaws.com/in.freico.stable/freicoin-v12.1.3.1-10174-win32-setup.exe)
  * [Windows 32-bit (zip)](https://s3.amazonaws.com/in.freico.stable/freicoin-v12.1.3.1-10174-win32.zip)
  * [Windows 64-bit (installer)](https://s3.amazonaws.com/in.freico.stable/freicoin-v12.1.3.1-10174-win64-setup.exe)
  * [Windows 64-bit (zip)](https://s3.amazonaws.com/in.freico.stable/freicoin-v12.1.3.1-10174-win64.zip)
  * [Source](https://github.com/tradecraftio/tradecraft/archive/v12.1.3.1-10174.zip)

This is a new patch release, fixing an important bug in the
`getblocktemplate` RPC code that prevented miners from using
v12.1.3-10161 to generate work units.

Please report bugs using the issue tracker at github:

  https://github.com/tradecraftio/tradecraft/issues

How to Upgrade
==============

If you are running an older version, shut it down. Wait until it has
completely shut down (which might take a few minutes for older
versions), then run the installer (on Windows) or just copy over
/Applications/Freicoin-Qt (on Mac) or freicoind/freicoin-qt (on
Linux).

Downgrade warning
-----------------

### Downgrade to a version < v12

Because release v12 and later will obfuscate the chainstate on every
fresh sync or reindex, the chainstate is not backwards-compatible with
pre-v12 versions of Freicoin or other software.

If you want to downgrade after you have done a reindex with v12 or
later, you will need to reindex when you first start Freicoin version
v11 or earlier.

This does not affect wallet forward or backward compatibility.

Notable changes
===============

Critical bug fix in `getblocktemplate`
--------------------------------------

There was a bug introduced in v12.1.3-10161 which corrupted the output
of `getblocktemplate`, causing work units representing invalid blocks
to be generated when the mempool was non-empty.  This release contains
a patch to fix the identified error, and has been tested to generate
valid blocks in production.

Miners who have upgraded to v12.1.3-10161 should either upgrade to
this patch release, or downgrade to v12.1.2-10135 immediately.  Using
a version prior to v12.1.2-10135 is not safe to do since the locktime
soft-fork achieved "locked-in" status on block #256032.

Delay time-based IBD detection threshold from 24h to 14d
--------------------------------------------------------

A property inherited from bitcoin is that a node previously would
consider itself in initial block download or "IBD" state if the most
recent block it has seen is more than 24 hours old.  While this has
worked for the bitcoin network, on Tradecraft there have been at least
two recent instances where software bugs or a sudden drop of hash
power has caused a tip extension delay of that magnitude.  If the node
providing work for a miner is then restarted, work will no longer be
generated by the `getblocktemplate` RPC, causing that miner to go
offline and further aggravating the issue.

Until a better fix can be engineered, this release changes the "IBD"
detection threshold from its prior value of 24 hours to 14 days--only
if the network goes without blocks for a full 2 weeks will a reset
node start up in "IBD" state.

New port numbers for "regtest" network
--------------------------------------

While testing the mining RPCs with production mining pool code, it was
observed that the default port settings for regtest mode conflict with
testnet, a problem that was inherited from bitcoin.  This release
assigns new default port numbers for regtest from the 2xxxx block,
much like testnet inhabits the 1xxxx block.

12.1.3.1-10174 Change log
=========================

  * `40d8ab2c` [FinalTx]
    Fix bug corrupting the output of `getblocktemplate` RPC, causing
    it to generate invalid work with high probability when the mempool
    is not empty.

  * `4cf7ba38` [Chainparams]
    Delay IBD threshold to be 14 days instead of 24 hours.

  * `467661aa` [Net]
    `b013e689` [Net]
    `b75b1154` [Net]
    Change the network ports used by regtest to not conflict with the
    default testnet ports.

Credits
--------

Thanks to who contributed to this release, including:

- Mark Friedenbach

As well as everyone that helped translating on [Transifex](https://www.transifex.com/tradecraft/freicoin-1/).
