Bitcoin Core version v0.16.3.1-16183 is now available from:

  * [Linux i686 (Intel 32-bit)](https://s3.amazonaws.com/in.freico.stable/bitcoin-v0.16.3.1-16183-i686-pc-linux-gnu.tar.gz)
  * [Linux x86_64 (Intel 64-bit)](https://s3.amazonaws.com/in.freico.stable/bitcoin-v0.16.3.1-16183-x86_64-linux-gnu.tar.gz)
  * [Linux ARMv7-A (ARM 32-bit)](https://s3.amazonaws.com/in.freico.stable/bitcoin-v0.16.3.1-16183-arm-linux-gnueabihf.tar.gz)
  * [Linux ARMv8-A (ARM 64-bit)](https://s3.amazonaws.com/in.freico.stable/bitcoin-v0.16.3.1-16183-aarch64-linux-gnu.tar.gz)
  * [macOS (app)](https://s3.amazonaws.com/in.freico.stable/bitcoin-v0.16.3.1-16183-osx.dmg)
  * [macOS (server)](https://s3.amazonaws.com/in.freico.stable/bitcoin-v0.16.3.1-16183-osx64.tar.gz)
  * [Windows 32-bit (installer)](https://s3.amazonaws.com/in.freico.stable/bitcoin-v0.16.3.1-16183-win32-setup.exe)
  * [Windows 32-bit (zip)](https://s3.amazonaws.com/in.freico.stable/bitcoin-v0.16.3.1-16183-win32.zip)
  * [Windows 64-bit (installer)](https://s3.amazonaws.com/in.freico.stable/bitcoin-v0.16.3.1-16183-win64-setup.exe)
  * [Windows 64-bit (zip)](https://s3.amazonaws.com/in.freico.stable/bitcoin-v0.16.3.1-16183-win64.zip)
  * [Source](https://github.com/tradecraftio/tradecraft/archive/bitcoin-v0.16.3.1-16183.zip)

This is the first release of the v0.16 stable branch of Bitcoin Core with the
stratum mining server and Tradecraft/Freicoin merge-mining patches applied.

Please report bugs related to the stratum mining server implementation or
Tradecraft/Freicoin merge-mining at the Tradecraft issue tracker on Github:

  <https://github.com/tradecraftio/tradecraft/issues>

Please report other bugs using Bitcoin the issue tracker at github:

  <https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues>

To receive security and update notifications for the stratum mining server and
merge-mining patches, please subscribe to:

  <https://tradecraft.groups.io/g/announce/>

To receive security notifications for Bitcoin Core, please subscribe to:

  <https://bitcoincore.org/en/list/announcements/join/>

How to Upgrade
==============

If you are running an older version, shut it down. Wait until it has completely
shut down (which might take a few minutes for older versions), then run the
installer (on Windows) or just copy over `/Applications/Bitcoin-Qt` (on Mac) or
`bitcoind`/`bitcoin-qt` (on Linux).

The first time you run version 0.15.0 or newer, your chainstate database will be
converted to a new format, which will take anywhere from a few minutes to half
an hour, depending on the speed of your machine.

Note that the block database format also changed in version 0.8.0 and there is
no automatic upgrade code from before version 0.8 to version 0.15.0 or
higher. Upgrading directly from 0.7.x and earlier without re-downloading the
blockchain is not supported.  However, as usual, old wallet versions are still
supported.

Downgrading warning
-------------------

Wallets created in 0.16 and later are not compatible with versions prior to 0.16
and will not work if you try to use newly created wallets in older
versions. Existing wallets that were created with older versions are not
affected by this.

Compatibility
=============

Bitcoin Core is extensively tested on multiple operating systems using the Linux
kernel, macOS 10.8+, and Windows Vista and later. Windows XP is not supported.

Bitcoin Core should also work on most other Unix-like systems but is not
frequently tested on them.

Notable changes
===============

There have been no notable changes in the stratum mining server or the
Tradecraft/Freicoin merge-mining patches between v0.15.2.1-14929 and this
release.  Please see the Bitcoin Core release notes for notable changes between
the upstream versions upon which these releases are based.

Credits
=======

Thanks to everyone who directly contributed to this release:

- Mark Friedenbach

As well as everyone that helped translating on [Transifex](https://www.transifex.com/tradecraft/freicoin-1/).
