Bitcoin version v0.15.2.1-14929 is now available from:

  * [Linux i686 (Intel 32-bit)](https://s3.amazonaws.com/in.freico.stable/bitcoin-v0.15.2.1-14929-i686-pc-linux-gnu.tar.gz)
  * [Linux x86_64 (Intel 64-bit)](https://s3.amazonaws.com/in.freico.stable/bitcoin-v0.15.2.1-14929-x86_64-linux-gnu.tar.gz)
  * [Linux ARMv7-A (ARM 32-bit)](https://s3.amazonaws.com/in.freico.stable/bitcoin-v0.15.2.1-14929-arm-linux-gnueabihf.tar.gz)
  * [Linux ARMv8-A (ARM 64-bit)](https://s3.amazonaws.com/in.freico.stable/bitcoin-v0.15.2.1-14929-aarch64-linux-gnu.tar.gz)
  * [macOS (app)](https://s3.amazonaws.com/in.freico.stable/bitcoin-v0.15.2.1-14929-osx.dmg)
  * [macOS (server)](https://s3.amazonaws.com/in.freico.stable/bitcoin-v0.15.2.1-14929-osx64.tar.gz)
  * [Windows 32-bit (installer)](https://s3.amazonaws.com/in.freico.stable/bitcoin-v0.15.2.1-14929-win32-setup.exe)
  * [Windows 32-bit (zip)](https://s3.amazonaws.com/in.freico.stable/bitcoin-v0.15.2.1-14929-win32.zip)
  * [Windows 64-bit (installer)](https://s3.amazonaws.com/in.freico.stable/bitcoin-v0.15.2.1-14929-win64-setup.exe)
  * [Windows 64-bit (zip)](https://s3.amazonaws.com/in.freico.stable/bitcoin-v0.15.2.1-14929-win64.zip)
  * [Source](https://github.com/tradecraftio/tradecraft/archive/bitcoin-v0.15.2.1-14929.zip)

This is the first release of the v0.15 stable branch of Bitcoin Core with the
stratum mining server and Tradecraft/Freicoin merge-mining patches applied.

Please report bugs related to the stratum mining server implementation or
Tradecraft/Freicoin merge-mining at the Tradecraft issue tracker on Github:

  <https://github.com/tradecraftio/tradecraft/issues>

Please report other bugs using Bitcoin the issue tracker at github:

  <https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues>

To receive security and update notifications for the stratum mining server and
merge-mining patches, please subscribe to:

  <https://tradecraft.groups.io/g/announce/>

To receive security notifications for Bitcoin Core, please subscribe to:

  <https://bitcoincore.org/en/list/announcements/join/>

How to Upgrade
==============

If you are running an older version, shut it down. Wait until it has completely
shut down (which might take a few minutes for older versions), then run the
installer (on Windows) or just copy over `/Applications/Bitcoin-Qt` (on Mac) or
`bitcoind`/`bitcoin-qt` (on Linux).

The first time you run version 0.15.0 or higher, your chainstate database will
be converted to a new format, which will take anywhere from a few minutes to
half an hour, depending on the speed of your machine.

The file format of `fee_estimates.dat` changed in version 0.15.0. Hence, a
downgrade from version 0.15 or upgrade to version 0.15 will cause all fee
estimates to be discarded.

Note that the block database format also changed in version 0.8.0 and there is
no automatic upgrade code from before version 0.8 to version 0.15.0. Upgrading
directly from 0.7.x and earlier without redownloading the blockchain is not
supported.  However, as usual, old wallet versions are still supported.

Downgrading warning
-------------------

The chainstate database for this release is not compatible with previous
releases, so if you run 0.15 and then decide to switch back to any older
version, you will need to run the old release with the `-reindex-chainstate`
option to rebuild the chainstate data structures in the old format.

If your node has pruning enabled, this will entail re-downloading and processing
the entire blockchain.

Compatibility
=============

Bitcoin Core is extensively tested on multiple operating systems using the Linux
kernel, macOS 10.8+, and Windows Vista and later. Windows XP is not supported.

Bitcoin Core should also work on most other Unix-like systems but is not
frequently tested on them.

Notable changes
===============

Please see the Bitcoin Core release notes for notable changes between the
upstream versions of that client upon which these releases are based.

Wallet selection for block-final transaction inputs
---------------------------------------------------

Until the block-final transaction soft-fork activates, merge-mining clients must
use their own wallet outputs to generate the block-final transaction for mining
commitments.  In v0.14 and earlier, the default wallet is used to fetch suitable
outputs.  With the new multi-wallet capabilities of v0.15 releases, the existing
'-walletblockfinaltx' option can now be used to name which wallet the outputs
are drawn from.  Using '-minesweepto' will sweep value from named wallet only.

Credits
=======

Thanks to everyone who directly contributed to this release:

- Mark Friedenbach

As well as everyone that helped translating on [Transifex](https://www.transifex.com/tradecraft/freicoin-1/).
